In this study, we investigate the synergy of lidar, Ku-band radar, and sub-millimeter-wave radiometer
measurements in the retrieval of the ice from satellite observations.  The synergy is analyzed through
the generation of a large dataset of IWC profile and the calculation of lidar, radar and radiometer 
observations using realistic models. The characteristics of the instruments (e.g. frequencies, sensitivities,
etc.) are set based on the expected characteristics of instruments of the AOS mission. 
A cross-validation methodology is used to assess the 
accuracy of the retrieved IWC profiles from various combinations of observations from the three instruments.
Specifically, the IWC and associated observations is randomly divided into two datasets, one for the 
training and the other for the evaluation.  The training dataset is used to train the retrieval algorithm,
while the evaluation dataset is used to assess the retrieval performance. 

To ensure the self-consistency of results and their relevance to practical applications, the dataset of IWC 
profiles is derived from CloudSat reflectivity observations. Although subject to potential biases
and uncertainties due to deficiencies in the retrieval models, these profiles are deemed to be more realistic
than those derived from cloud resolving model simulations. Moreover, they are roughly consistent with
the 2C-ICE CloudSat product \citep{deng2015}, while relying on assumptions and parameterizations that
enable the accurate computation of backscatter lidar, Ku-band radar, and sub-millimiter-wave radiometer
observations.

The retrieval of the ice water content (IWC) profiles from the computed observations is achieved in two
steps.  In the first step, a class, out of 18 potential classes characterized by different 
vertical distribution of IWC, is estimated from the observations. The 18 classes are predetermined based on
k-Means clustering algorithm.  In the second step, the IWC profile is estimated using and Ensemble Kalman
Smoother (EKS) algorithm that uses the estimated class as a priori information.

The results of the study show that the synergy of lidar, radar, and radiometer observations is significant
in the retrieval of the IWC profiles.  The inclusion of the lidar observations in the retrieval process has a
larger impact on the retrieval performance than the inclusion of the radar observations.  Although results are
not directly comparable to those from other studies, given the differences
between the instruments in this study relative to those from other studies, it may be concluded that they
are not inconsistent with previous studies. Specifically, previous studies show some skills in radiometer-only
retrievals and significant improvements in the retrieval performance when the active observations are incorporated.
From this perspective, our findings are consistent with previous studies.

Further work is necessary out to assess the impact of sources of uncertainties such as variability in the
PSD intercept not captured by the current parameterization, differences in the instruments' footprint sizes,
and non-uniform beam filling on the retrievals of the IWC profiles.  Other sources of uncertainties that
need be considered include the potential existence of supercooled liquid water in the clouds and uncertainties
in the electromagnetic scattering properties used in the in instruments' forward models.